a skilled prostitutes must recognize
amputee gait deviations are ptb
prosthesis that is statically aligned
properly may require additional
adjustment when the amputee walks with
it this presentation will demonstrate
six basic gait deviations you must
correct in dynamic alignments of the PTB
prosthesis normal human locomotion is a
complex process unfortunately we often
discover its beauty only after it's
taken away by disease or injury
restoring locomotion for the amputee
becomes a primary goal for the
prosthetist to accomplish correct
dynamic alignment you must observe the
interaction of the sockets pylon and
foot at mid stance as the amputee walks
dynamic alignment must be accomplished
by viewing locomotion from two different
perspectives first you must observe the
amputee walking away from you and toward
you as you observe the interaction of
sockets pylon and foot make sure you
talk with the amputee throughout the
process of dynamic alignments you will
gain valuable information about
excessive pressure and impressions from
the amputee this helps develop a
cooperative and trusting relationship
between you and the amputee the second
perspective you must use to complete the
dynamic alignment is from the side angle
again observe the interaction of the
sockets pylon and foots
the first deviation we will demonstrate
here is the pylon which is not vertical
as you observe this condition note that
the foot is not flat on the floor
this situation will create excessive
socket pressure on either the proximal
or the distal portion of the residual
limb as you can see the pylon is not
perpendicular to the ground and the foot
is not flat on the floor at mid stance
this deviation can be caused by improper
tilt adjustments on the adjustable leg
the foot being too far out set or the
limb being too long
of course the pylon could tilt the
opposite direction also to cause this
deviation a second deviation you may
observe is excessive lateral thrust if
the lateral thrust is too great the knee
will be forced in a lateral direction
watch the knee carefully as we now
demonstrate excessive lateral thrust
this situation can be caused by the foot
being too far in sets it is also
possible that the socket ml may be too
large causing the need to be unstable
the amputee may report too much pressure
on the medial side of the knee for
excessive lateral thrust the next
deviation possible is excessive piston
ik in this case the residual limb lifts
out too far out of the sockets as the
amputee walks notice the piston of the
limb as the amputee walks of course some
piston will always occur but the
residual limb should not lift out of the
socket more than six millimeters or 1/4
of an inch or the piston Aang is
excessive
this deviation is caused by an
inadequate suspension system or an
improper fitting sockets you can only
see this deviation from the rear view
the following gait deviation is the
first of three you should observe from
the side as the amputee walks first we
look at excessive knee flexion and heel
strike
notice how the knee buckles and will not
carry the amputees weight in this
situation the knee kicks forward when
this deviation is presence the amputee
may say that the anterior distal tibia
hurts observe the knee buckling as the
amputee enters stance phase this
situation can be caused by too stiff a
heel wedge the foot position too far
posterior or too dorsiflexed or the foot
too tight in the shoe hampering foot
action another deviation observable from
the side is drop-off in the last part of
stance phase the amputee may feel like
they are falling in a hole notice how
the knee Falls rapidly forward as the
amputee walks this deviation can be
caused by having the foot too far
posterior or too dorsiflexed too short a
heel on the sach foot will also cause
this deviation the final deviation we
will observe here is excessive plantar
flexion the amputee may complain that it
feels like walking uphill
notice how the heel comes off the floor
too soon and the knee is hard to flex
this deviation can be caused by a fourth
which is too far anterior too much
points are flexion in the foots or too
soft a heel wedge we have identified six
basic gait deviations you must recognize
and correct to improve the locomotion of
the amputee through experience you will
identify other gait problems some of
which are caused by poor walking habits
of amputee
as you observe the interaction of the
sockets pylon and foot during dynamic
alignment you will learn to improve
amputee locomotion